.. _react.0.0.0: 

========================
0.0.0 (Proof of concept)
========================

General goal is to make the react frontend good enough so it can replace the currenbt bootstrap frontent used for bugs.


.. :class:`Site` per milestone.  A
   :ref:`noi`
   :mod:`lino_xl.lib.deploy`
   `primereact<primerect.com>`_
   text_


Done
====

* Reactive

  * Detail view, (use flex-display : columns @smaller screens)
  * Grid view, (USe reactive = true) with prime react compoennt

* Grid View

  * Correctly rendered colunns + fields.
  * Hidden Columns are hidden
  * basic Pagination

* Detail View

  * Improved CSS for unset data.
  * SlaveGrid
  * Display mode components for all elements

* Navigation

  * Grid and slave summary elems have working 'expand' button.
  * mt + mk add into url patterns.
  * Detail elements which are FK should have link to to the detail view of the object
  * HTML links for navigation
  * FK links in grid view
  * Nav buttons in detail view (Next / Previous)

* Site.About

 * Is hacked in action.render()

 
   
Roadmap For Hobbit
==================

!! means that it's likely for the next release

* TopBar

  * Remove templated items
  * Add global search input

* Navigation

  * Search bar for and topbar !!




Later
=====

Toggleable columns for Grid
---------------------------
This will require adding a toolbar / header to the grid and a multi-select element.
There should be a state.array which is bool values for each of the columns, generated from site-data on componentMount.


ParamValues
-----------
If pvs' are not sent to the server with a grid data request, the default pv's are applied. As such they do 'work'
currently and there is no need to store them in the state until there is an interface to modify them.

* Grid

  * Correct Column Widths
  * Modifiable columns widths
  * Hide Toggleable columns
  * parm values filter window
  * modifiable rows per page.
  * small pager for slave-grid
  * have pagination page part of url ?

* Editing
* Dialogs
  * with params
  * yes / no dialog
* param window


Minor debugs / optimizations
----------------------------

* Have name ref for field elems only in field_options
